= Mailhopper

Mailhopper provides a simple ActiveRecord-based queue for asynchronous delivery of email in Rails apps.

Why use Mailhopper to queue your email?
* Mailhopper captures the full content and headers of emails at their time of creation. It can handle multiple MIME types and attachments.
* If email can't be delivered from your queue (e.g. your smtp server is down), you can retry delivery until successful.
* Emails can be accessed at any time, even after they've been sent.

The complete rationale is explained in this blog post: http://www.cerebris.com/blog/2011/09/07/tame-rails-email-dragons-with-mailhopper/

Mailhopper is intended to be used along with a delivery agent such as DelayedMailhopper, which uses DelayedJob to deliver email from the Mailhopper queue. Without a delivery agent, emails will accumulate in the Mailhopper queue but won't be delivered.

DelayedMailhopper can be found here: https://github.com/cerebris/delayed_mailhopper

== Requirements

Rails 3.1+

== Installation

Add to your project's Gemfile:

  gem 'mailhopper'
  
Install with bundler:

  bundle install
  
Generate default initializer and migration files:

  rails generate mailhopper
  
Migrate your database:

  rake db:migrate

Don't forget to also install a delivery agent, such as DelayedMailhopper, so that emails will be delivered from your queue !!!
  
== Configuration

If you want all of your application's email to be queued with Mailhopper, configure mailers either in application.rb or your application's environment-specific configuration files:

  MyApp::Application.configure do
    config.action_mailer.delivery_method = :mailhopper
  end

Alternatively, or additionally, configure individual mailers to use Mailhopper:

  class MyMailer < ActionMailer::Base
    ActionMailer::Base.delivery_method = :mailhopper
  end

== Options

The following options can be configured in your initializer (config/initializers/mailhopper):

  Mailhopper::Base.setup do |config|
    # The base email class used by Mailhopper
    config.email_class = Mailhopper::Email

    # The base mailer class used by Mailhopper
    config.mailer_class = Mailhopper::Mailer
    
    # The method used by the delivery agent to deliver emails from your queue
    config.default_delivery_method = :smtp
  end

It's preferable to leave these options out of your initializer if the defaults, shown above, are acceptable. Delivery agents may override some defaults (e.g. DelayedMailhopper sets email_class = DelayedMailhopper::Email).

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Cerebris Corporation. This is free software released under the MIT License (see MIT-LICENSE for details).
